[Music]
hello everyone
i am stacey wilson hunt and welcome to
comic-con at home
the panel for hbo's his dark materials
how is everyone
good very good
all right let me introduce everyone
because i want to make sure each of you
is
is known and introduced properly to all
of your fans
let's start with executive producer jane
tranter hello
jane executive producer and writer jack
thorne hello jack
and we have our amazing cast members
daphne keane
as lyra hello daphne
we have ruth wilson as mrs coulter
ariane bakari is lord boreal
amir wilson as will perry yes
andrew scott as john perry
[Applause]
new cast member new cosmonaut and
finally
and and of course not lastly lin-manuel
miranda as lee scores thee
hello we are so happy to have everyone
here today amidst such a strange time in
humanity this time of our lives
but we're so honored to have you here
and so before we get into the
conversation we do have a treat for
everyone
we do want to show all the fans of his
dark materials
the trailer for season two so let's take
a look at that right now
you're not from here are you
from this world no neither am i
there are multiple worlds up there and
people will be looking for her
not all of them could i found her
these troubled times call for the
magisterium to take control
that's word keep her safe this knife
could
cut between worlds everyone's connected
lyra how do you know about me you have
something important to do
the time has come to act
i believe we have no choice
people are afraid of things they don't
understand
these are strange new times
[Music]
wow i think we can all agree that looks
incredible and we cannot wait for season
two
so jane and jack first of all i wanted
to congratulate you on an amazing
season one what a herculean effort to
say the least to adapt these
amazing novels by philip pullman i would
love to know what has meant the
most to you and how fans have received
the series
i mean obviously the most gratifying
thing is that the
fans of the book have become fans of the
television adaptation
um it's the thing that you
you kind of dread are they gonna like it
or are they not and the fans of his dart
materials
are really really passionate and clever
and interested engaged
and they have lots of really good things
to say and so
we did watch it go out episode by
episode with the fans and i think the
gratifying thing
was how they embraced what we'd done as
we began to introduce
boreal crossing between the worlds and
there was a sense of you know
how's that happening and the fact that
boreal was such a big character
in season one and you you watched them
put it all together until finally boreal
got put together
with will parry and we introduced will
and the fans were then okay
but he's not in it until the subtle
knife and then they
saw us play out will's backstory
and saw what we were doing that was
probably i mean one of the most
interactive and exciting audience
experiences
um we could have hoped for and
uh we're just very proud that the fans
responded
and i'm pleased and relieved the fans
responded in the way they did
you're all very wonderful and i'm sure
jack felt a huge sigh of relief
when uh when that when those uh reports
were coming in via social media and
amazing really wonderful critical
reviews too so jack tell me
as the main writer in the trenches and
bringing these novels to life for the
screen
what is the hardest part of adapting a
book series like this
adapting anything is difficult what is
so intrinsically difficult about
these stories and this mythology that
may surprise people
the denseness of of phillips world that
that this is not one where you can go oh
there's this thing and then there's this
thing and then there's this thing it's
like
there's these things and they're all
gonna hit you all at the same time and
if you don't
if you don't go with us uh if you sit
looking at your phone
you're gonna look up in a minute and go
i have no idea what's going on i have no
idea
what they're talking about and i have no
idea why everyone's
you know obsessed with dust and and i
think that was the thing
more than anything and and we were we
were trying to do a show
you know the the thing that was most
gratifying for me was this was a sofa
show this was a show that people watched
for their families
where you know i had playwright friends
of mine who were like you know i'm
watching this with my kids and i'm
watching this with my mum and
dad i mean like you know and that thing
of just trying to trying to make sure
that everyone went with it everyone
understood it to some degree from eight
to eighty
and um and uh you know and that that was
tricky but
amazing you know that philip is a wonder
and uh
and and trying to do justice to him was
the hardest
job in my life but it was also a
wonderful job and by the way has he
given you
uh his blessing and feedback on what he
has seen so far
yes he has been very lovely he's been
very lovely yeah yeah
yeah because it could go the other way
you never know
nope
to spare jack's blushes but philip
has i i think he's reached out to
everybody
he's he's been uh it was
actually that was a very gratifying
thing was to actually watch
sir philip pullman's reaction to our
adaptation along with all of his fans
he was very uh appreciative i'd love to
shift over to daphne hello daphne
hi we don't want to recap all of season
one for people who may be just
discovering the series
but it's it's suffice to say that she
ends the season in
almost a literal and figurative free
fall we
she has just had this epiphany about her
family and her relationship with mrs
coulter
what would you describe as lyra's state
of mind now
going into season two how did how
conflicted does she feel
the world and the family that she
thought she knew has completely been
upended for me it actually felt like a
darth vader luke star wars moment
it's like that that sort of reference
tell me what you think where she is in
in her mindset but also emotionally
right now
i feel like when you first meet lyra
she's a very outgoing person
she trusts very easily but going into
season two after having realized
that the only thing that gave her
stability which was the illegiomator and
roger and now
like are both gone which means that
i can trust no one i can trust nothing
which is what's so beautiful about
season two it's seeing how
she starts off being closed and like in
her own shell and stuff and
will sort of brings her out back into
the world and back into lyra
and how has this story and how has her
story made you rethink
your relationship with your own parents
you're you're very close with them
they're also artists
and actually one of them does appear in
the show tell us who that is
well my dad's real keen and he plays
father mcphail
so that's fun i always i've acted with
my dad in the past
i appreciate my parents after having
worked on this because they haven't
killed anyone
so that's great that's always a good
sign that's a really good sign
i do want to talk to amir hello hello
hello so we didn't see a lot of will
in uh season one and we sort of saw a
lot of hinting at
what lay in front of him but first of
all i wanted to know
how much pressure did you feel as an
actor bringing this character to life
knowing again what we just discussed
with the showrunners the
impassioned nature of the fans and how
they want to make sure that these
characters are brought to light
exactly as they were written so tell me
the pressure you felt but also the
freedom
to sort of reinvent this character for
the screen i well i knew that will
hadn't wasn't in book one and i knew
that
we were going to put will in season one
and i
at first i didn't know how the fans
would react to that because of course
that you know like
the fans already when it comes to books
and adaptations of books fans are quite
serious about you know sticking to the
story and making sure you know
everything's how it is in the books but
um
in terms of yeah it was a little bit of
pressure and it's because you know when
you're bringing any character to life
that's based
off a book someone in a book or or
anyone is that there's a pressure to
know to like
make sure you present them how they are
in the book but also you know adding a
bit
of yourself to that character and not
just making making making it your own
um but i yeah i felt i felt the freedom
to just
yeah do my thing and um yeah i hope i
did a good job
you did your thing well man thank you
thank you
you and and daphne are the two younger
actors here with us today who are
in the series tell me a little bit about
first of all your first impressions of
each other
how did you bond and what did you find
similarities in each other
well i mean well we met for the first
time in madrid
so i was i was filming in prague at the
time and then um
i've got when i've got the part they
said you know we want you to meet daphne
like pretty much straight away so
in the next week they threw me out to
madrid and then we went out together
i think one thing we said in common is
that you know we're both we both moved
away from home
and we both you know have to live we
moved to cardiff together and we're
yeah we're both we all you know we all
have the same things like
how we both hate school and all that
stuff
you know three months off
school for three months it must have
been great they split the room so it was
like definitely on one side of me and
the other so there was no communication
at all
so we couldn't even call each other like
there was my tutorial
a like shared another head and then a
missed youtube room so we couldn't even
like hear each other me and daphne did
like a five minute walk away from each
other and we lived next to like this
really nice park
in in cardiff um i can't remember the
name is the butte park is that what it's
called yes
the parkview park um so we'd go for
walks and stuff
and um yeah it was nice um it was it was
fun it's nice to have a friend at work
right
yeah exactly yeah and they was the only
person like the only kid who went up for
will that i didn't meet i met all of the
other people who went up to will
and as like samia said he was in frog
was it yeah he was in prague and then he
got called into madrid
and i was like right i'm gonna be
filming with him for like
half a year so i really need to get on
with him i'd love to talk to ruth who
looks way too glam and had way too much
of an advantage over the rest of us
that's just how she looks it's not fair
so i'd love to talk about your character
and and she is
someone who i think suffice to say
challenges our perception of good and
evil
i find myself alternately sort of
loathing her but feeling for her
and still not understanding how we are
supposed to feel about her even at the
end of season one
and i'm wondering to what degree do you
see her as a
survivor of her circumstances but also
as the villain sort of perpetuating this
this cycle of what i would say is sort
of abuse
and and negativity um especially toward
now this
this young woman who has entered her
life in a meaningful way
what is your perception of that good
question
um he's the question to us yeah easy
um now i think this why this character
fascinated me was i mean the best
characters in fiction always for me and
to play are ones you never truly
understand and
uh i said to philip she's a bit like
head of goblet ibsen scarborough she you
don't ever get to know who she really is
or you it's a struggle to work out who
she is and she's constantly
um challenging me and confusing me and
her intentions are always mixed up and
different
from moment to moment um and i think
that what was really joyful in this
season to play with was to sort of get
underneath
her her circumstances more why she
what she's had to deal with as a woman
in a very
male world and the sacrifice that she's
had to make
and at what cost which is really the
cost of
losing her daughter really or choosing
something over her daughter
and i think that's been really
interesting i mean and
friday digs into that in the book but we
were given more license to really go
further and jack really sort of dug into
that and i think that's really
really a lovely or a really great thing
an angle to look at mrs coulter and to
see that side of her
um again she does such horrific things
you need to sort of
balance that with like reasons why
or potential reasons why you know and
we know that by season three we see her
as a completely different person so you
need to find the journey through the
three seasons
to discover how she gets to where she is
by the end of the
the books um so that was really glorious
for us to kind of dig into this season
um and it's much more about
self-discovery she's on her
own a lot season two um and so it's more
about her own
her relationship to herself and her
monkey
it's all about the qec in the
background yes yeah and how familiar
were you with the books were were these
books part of your stay stable of
reading as a kid
or did you discover them later
shamefully
no i had never met never read them i'd
heard about them and i heard about the
theatrical show at the national which
was a huge success
um but i'd never read them so it was my
first introduction
was reading them when i was meeting jane
and i was just instantly bowled over
they're extraordinary books and
the more you dig in again another great
sign of great fiction is the more you
dig the more you find there's just
never-ending pool of
kind of choices and options and things
to
dig into and psychology um these are
really philosophical books
so for an actor it's really fun each
character has so many layers
that you can keep digging um and coming
to dead ends sometimes but then pulling
yourself out
and finding something else but no it's
been a joy i love playing her she's such
a joyful because she's so
horrific but also there's real damage
there um
which you can play against it yeah well
you seem to thrive in that
space of enigma in in all the characters
you've played that i've seen you play
there's always this enigmatic quality to
your
to your characters so maybe that's
really i don't know what i'm doing
it's just a slightly blank moment
i sincerely doubt that that's true and
lynn how are you doing you've had a busy
month or so ish like you know rolling
out a movie
and some other stuff yeah yeah
we filmed that movie four years ago so
it's true it's really been kind of
watching the world watch it
yeah but it's nice to be on the other
side of it it's nice to like the world
just sort of has it now and it's
yes and there you go that's brilliant
it's it's a very rare
privilege uh in the theater to be able
to do that so uh
especially now and especially when so
many of us are craving that theatrical
experience
so lynn you have spoken that these books
were actually very important to you
and tell me a little bit about the
relationship you had with these books
and
also your wife because it sounds like
you were both fans
and then how has it felt to immerse
yourself
in this world having already loved it so
much that must be just sort of like
the most childhood dream come true well
yeah i fell in love with these books
around 2005 and you know
most couples when they start dating they
have their like first
date night or they have their first song
and this was sort of one of the first
series we read together we're both
big fantasy and sci-fi fans and so i
remember reading this series i think
vanessa was a book
ahead of me um so we kind of fell in
love with the world as we were falling
in love with each other
invited by jane and jack into it and
sort of see how the sausage gets made
and put on my cowboy pantaloon
and do the thing you know is is
very surreal it's very surreal to be uh
inside this world you've devoted a lot
of
time to because you know when um i've
read the side stories i've read the
novellas phillips
i've read demon voices his essays sort
of on the theory behind it and so
it's a joy for me this is like space
camp for me
that's a great comparison and i'd love
to talk a little bit about the chemistry
that that you and daphne's character
have it's sort of akin to
i could see them having their own
spin-off like buddy buddy comedy movie
down the line
a little bit of a departure in genre but
i think it could work
but i would love to know what you have
learned about acting working with her
because a lot of older actors who have
worked with younger actors
talk about this sense of simplicity that
young people bring
to to this craft that maybe more
experienced actors maybe you put a
little bit too much thought into things
and
for these younger actors they show up
and they're just annoying geniuses
so i'm wondering how much have you
learned about how to strip away some of
the artificial performance
and just sort of let it flow well you're
half right about daphne but it's the
genius part not the annoying right right
right
listen daphne and i both speak spanish
and we love show tunes and so that was a
very
quick foundation uh to to sort of form
our friendship um you know the thing
about season two is
i i missed her so much when we were
filming season two because i'm
like both i'm lit my characters um
was looking for her character but also
we were sort of filming
in literally different worlds so i would
leave
the sound stage that contained the world
i was in and i'd run
over to the world where will and and
lyra were and be like whoa
this is amazing hi guys like see you at
lunch
uh you know so it was you know we we
bonded very fiercely in the first
season and and and a lot of lee's
journey is
in the second season is about that it's
sort of like he feels this incredible
sense of
um this girl got the dealt the worst
hand when it comes to parents
um
um i'm gonna do what i can to have her
back and that's that's really how he
spends the the second season is just
doing his best to have her back
even in absentia well i love that and so
much to look forward to on that front
and next up we have ariane i would love
to talk about
how you see what is driving boreal
in in this piece because he's clearly
aligned with mrs coulter
but we also can't always trust what
we're seeing on screen
so tell me a little bit about what you
think is his internal drive here
his internal drive is ambition he just
wants to be at the top the thing is that
he always felt like he was the outside
of everything
so he's things that he just wants to he
wants more power
he's a megalomaniac he has no sense of
feeling he doesn't really care about
anybody else except for himself and
he would step on as many toes as
possible
you know there's a lot of dead bodies
behind him
and what what is it about you and your
experience that you think
landed you this role because you seem
like a fairly light-hearted fun guy
yeah it's really strange i've never ever
played
like a villain ever and i did a film
once and
and the director said you'd make an
amazing villain i never really
understood why and he said
just don't do anything with your face
he said don't put anything on don't put
any emotion on it just be
still and you'll make an amazing villain
and so when i came into this i was
thinking well that's what i'm gonna try
i'm gonna not do
i'm not gonna give anything away i'm not
gonna show anybody i'm not gonna
let anybody know how excited i am that i
really love the books and i really want
this job
i'm just going to be really cold and
really kind of like
ending me eating like yeah i'm finished
now and that's what i kind of did was
like i'm not giving anything away
so yeah i've learned to be a villain now
now i seem to be playing villains all
the time
[Laughter]
we should say if i i can um so
um jack and i and dan mcculloch saw
aaron's audition we we um he was
everything he said was true that is
exactly as he was and it was kind of
like chilling and scary
um and we at that time
jack was still working on how he was
going to thread
this the back story of will through the
first
season and actually it was one of those
amazing things i've heard people talk
about and never actually seen before
when um when a writer is looking at
the dailies and looking at the whole
season come together
and we were lucky enough we had a pause
between editing
season one together and starting filming
will's world because we had to wait for
amir to become
available so we couldn't shoot it until
later so
jack had had a chance to see all of the
eight episodes really the first season
come together
and it was the power of what aaron was
doing as boreal
when he just said actually
what we need in will's world is is a
little bit of boreal
and used him as the
way in um and it was just a really
interesting thing
watching a writer watch an actor and
think actually we could
take this in this direction wow that's
amazing
thank you jack thank you
last but not least andrew the newest
addition to the family how are you sir
i'm all right
we're liking your your quarantine dew is
looking very chic so well done
do not apologize it's a look it's a good
look for you
so you know we saw your photo in season
one we didn't see your
full self on screen tell me a little bit
about what it was like for you to
immerse yourself in this world you know
your co-stars had a whole season
head start and you're jumping in it's a
lot of cg
you're working with a demon which i
assume you've never worked with demons
before but
you did play a priest so that could be
possibly something to deal with
with a few demons tell me a little bit
about adjusting to
this high-level fantasy world which is
really
you know a lot of actors i've spoken to
said it can be harder than doing
shakespeare you know you have to imagine
things that
aren't there are there so tell me a
little bit about that adjustment and
then what you can share with us about
your demon companion after that
uh well uh it was really exciting i mean
everybody just went ballistic about the
the first season so um it was uh you
know always a little bit intimidating to
come in and you don't want to mess it up
so um
hopefully the photo will will will be um
not as disappointing as
when it comes to life but
it was really brilliant and uh you know
i got to work with
incredible actors um lynne
a lot of my stuff was with lynn and we
had such a really good time we really
did it was
a total joy to do that so much of the
stuff that's so beautiful to me about
the books and
and uh the series is is the relationship
with the demons and them
so um i do uh have a relationship with
with my team and i think i'm
this is the first time uh we're
revealing this but um my demon is going
to be
be played by somebody who is uh very
close to me
in real life which is um a young
performer
and a writer called phoebe waller bridge
i know a
that's very exciting i'm really thrilled
about that because it's all about
companionship and friendship and loyalty
and
and that's what i feel about phoebe in
in my um in my real life so it's
wonderful that um
that that's that's happening oh that is
wonderful
and what a wonderful segue to talk a
little bit about the forthcoming season
and jane i wonder if you can put in some
perspective for the fans
you know you had locked most of your
episodes before the global pandemic took
place and obviously
everything paused tell me a little bit
about how that has affected the rollout
of season two
and if at all and how the the episodes
have been impacted in terms of either
the way they were cut
did you have to lose footage tell us a
little bit about that because i'm sure
it was not an easy time the good news is
we have managed to keep going the whole
way through the lockdown we have the
most amazing post-production team
and we are currently touchwood
completely on course for transmitting
when we would have transmitted um
we had a i mean really we did have an
incredible piece of luck
we were filming um when the pandemic hit
and we did have to stop filming but we
were
in a peculiar situation where our main
unit
had wrapped it just before christmas
and we had one standalone episode
that we were filming in march and it was
separate from
the remake other seven episodes because
it was a standalone episode
which jack had written uh with the
blessing
and with input from philip pullman which
looked at
what asriel had been doing between
going through the anomaly at the end of
season one and when we see
lord azrael at the beginning of book
three the amber spyglass
because asriel isn't actually in the
subtle life he's very much talked about
his presence is very much fault
but he's not actually there so we played
kind of detective
with the subtle knife and figured out
what azrael might have been doing for us
it meant that we could continue
post-production on the seven episodes
that make up the subtle knife
and just put the asriel standalone
episode to one side
and maybe at some point in the future we
can revisit it as a standalone but
essentially
our adaptation of the southern life have
been completed so
we were really lucky from that point of
view that is so impressive and
that's probably one of thousands of
stories that will come out of this
the last few months of just writers and
artists
turning on a dime and and really
employing their craft
yes and just amazing team amazing show
amazing
yes and and jack i get the sense you
don't like to toot your own horn but i
will ask you
is there something that you're so
excited aside from what she has just
described which sounds
so impressive is there a sequence from
the books that you have
written for season two that you're very
excited for fans to see that
that just makes you smile when you think
about it there's a beautiful piece
in the book that i have dreamt about
writing for a very long time
and i was watching it today and it is
magnificent
and it is heartbreaking and uh
and so yes i would probably say that but
there's so many bits
and my dms are open and you can send it
over for me to watch it
jack i do have one question in terms of
season one you know when you're casting
a series like this you know you cast the
best people
you cross your fingers and then the
magic sort of unfolds on set
when you sit down to write season two
knowing how wonderful the cast is
you start to be able to write to their
strengths and to
their what they bring to the characters
that maybe you didn't know when you were
writing the first scripts
were there any moments like that for you
where you thought okay now that i know
he can do this or she can do that
i'm going to give this this actor a
little bit more
this direction or more breathing room in
this direction do you can you think of
any examples
like that lots i mean
uh it's interesting as as as daphne said
i think this series is all about
trust i think that what philip's written
in the cell knife is a
it's a beautiful poem about trust
about the way that characters have to
learn to trust again
you know that will his life has taught
him to
trust nothing and lyra has learned
through series one
that she can't trust anything and and
then slowly this sort of beautiful
flower emerges of them
and i think that's what the writing
process has been about you know that
that that thing of trusting people's
faces i think probably my favorite
moment in in series one is
one without words uh for obvious reasons
but it's uh it's just um mrs coulter
sitting by a bath
and what you can do in terms of telling
a story
and i think that thing of just trusting
actors faces
um i think you know i had a writing team
on this so it's not just me but i think
that thing of just that
we we all just trusted faces a lot more
to tell story
and uh you know and paired back and
paired back and paired back and
trusted these magnificent people to tell
the story through their eyes
and they all have great faces too which
helps they have
lovely beautiful faces all of them yes
so i wanted to ask the actors
what have you learned about each other
that is the strangest thing that you
couldn't have predicted
does anyone have any habits on set does
someone have strange
music tastes does someone have strange
food or snack preferences
does anything come to mind i'll start
with lin because i feel like he's gonna
have an answer
i hope i'm not speaking out of school
andrew scott
but one of the things first of all you
have no idea what it's like to be
cooped up in a hot air balloon with
andrew scott while
fleabag is peaking in the united states
from women i hadn't talked to in years
when i went out you're in a balloon with
hot priest
but we were in the balloon for a long
time so we got to be very good friends
and we got to hang out a lot
um but i think the first thing we bonded
over was uh the television show judge
judy
of which mr scott is an enormous fan
of both judy and her bailiff their
inner life and we spent a lot of time
talking about that
that is unexpected for sure i also
introduced lynn uh the british um
uh uh people watching will will uh
recognize this but i i introduced him to
a very british snipe
which is the thing called a percy pig
oh yes yes
the foundation of a strong friendship
right
and how about anyone else can you think
of a moment where someone was getting
into character
in a very strange way perhaps listening
to some odd music on
on the phone or what comes to mind
um me and daphne watch top boy
we watch top ones came out and then
i was watching it on set so i had my
airport abduction will tell you that i
always have my airpods in so we watched
a lot of top boy i made yeah i forced
ashley into watching top boy
and i'd love to know you know after
season one aired and you're out in the
world and people now have
enjoyed this gift that you've been sort
of making under wraps all those months
tell me a little bit about some of the
fan reaction maybe you start with aryan
and i'd love to know
again these fans are very intense what
was the most meaningful thing that some
someone said to you about not only what
the series meant to them
via the books but also the way you
brought it to life does something come
to mind
no well that kind of they weren't really
meaningful for me they were kind of like
more like i got the hot priest kind of
thing next thing
that was kind of a bit scary like people
like quite some really strange dms
people sliding into my dms
yes yes area
no um no i was just impressed by just
how people were so taken by it all and
they were like shocked that i was so
young and they were shocked that um
i could be so cold it was like quite a
it's
really really responsive to it it was
mad like every day i was constantly
getting stopped on the street and like
you know i think someone asked me to do
to do a birthday message in in like
their
the boreal style and i was like well
okay
what's
[Laughter]
was there l'oreal because you're worth
it well i want to thank everyone for
joining us today this has been such an
inspired fun conversation and we're so
honored that you would take the time to
join us and also that you worked so hard
in making this television show which by
the way
at a time when we've never needed
television so much
so congratulations on an incredible
achievement and season two of his dark
materials
premieres this fall on hbo and bbc
and if you haven't already please be
sure to catch up on season one
and jane tell us what the best way for
people to watch season one just in case
they may not know bbc
iplayer if you're in the uk and
through hbo max if you're anywhere else
wonderful and those are global services
which is very handy
and you can also watch season one the
complete first season is now on digital
blu-ray and dvd
in august so anyone who hasn't caught up
by then will be able to
and i just wanted to say thank you so
much and please join us on twitter
shortly
with some cast or a live q a and you can
ask any questions that we may not have
gotten to today
and thank you again and congratulations
and stay well everyone
[Music]